 The Reven


Nil -these are the first People of Mayrn, in custom to the first “leader” of their community on the First Day, Vaeya this group of people are traditionally matriarchal lead as are most of the civilizations of Mayrn, where women will own homes and men own companies; however, health and education as well as governmental affairs are women dominated all the way until PearlCity with an even nihilistic complete federal takeover with AI, and Book 2 uncovered an ancient evil which controlled from deep within the sacred city.

Dosram - During the Expansion, some of the people within the Nilgree fought over lands and were pushed north, where a long battle took place that divided the people, and the newly declared Dosram crossed the mountain pass under the extreme conditions in these lands they fell to instability in favor of having separate communities, with smaller cities with surrounding clans to protect them. They are proud and hearty people, who do not shy away from a fight.

Enul - During the Expansion, some people freely moved west and most survived off the land, and these people are generally peaceful and great farmers and hunters, and they have a special sense for nature. Also speaking of their skills they are accomplished survivalists who can be deadly foes if faced on their turf, as they travelled far to the East they found a large plain and a giant mountain in the middle, they camped there and partied in the open wind until night fall and the first Dred Night Raid was understood, they had to learn to hide in plain sight and to defend against the horrors from the Dark North.

Thuun - 5 ships sailed to the West off the coast of Nilgree during the great expansion, only the bravest dared to sail the ocean and only 4 made it across the sea, to the Isle of Thuunrow, which they made a fortress, with a strict regiment for life as all Thuun are soldiers to the Divine cause before all else, their culture is not well known to outsiders.



Dread - membraneous wings
Lore

Chekhov’s Gun - no loose ends especially in serial events (I believe the main serial events are knotted well together - will find looseys)
Occam’s Razor - consistency and no assumptions to further plot
Hero's Journey -
Timeline overview:
Before the Ages - The creation of light. It bestows energy throughout Solthara among the Divines and spectrals as well as the contrasting darkness that steals energy led by an evil ruler in Nulthara; the Divines create the Subthara where Earth is made for the spirits to live within the system guided by the Divines.

Initial Age - “The Old World” (After the creation of earth) the first mortal people, creatures, and plants explore, live, and grow across the Earth and this world becomes a great pride for the Divines, but Umbra the Shadows sneaks its influence into the Mayrn and whispers corruption among the first people and tampers with the natural order and system that the Divines master. While the mortals continue on their own expeditions and inferior conquests, The Divines are divided in their ideologies of how to maneuver this evil dysfunction. Some of the Divines wish to wait and learn if an attack is even plausible from the outer darkness, but many of the spirits of once mortal women and men, who’s energy has grown greatly after their experience on Earth, joined under the leadership of the star goddess to build an army of Sentries who stand guard in First Realm to defend the Mayrn the appointed military leader under Nova is Quenla and the Lead strategist is Morhri, who both are the first Nil heroes of the First Age.
Shadow Conquest- the spirits of the Sentries are watching the barrier between light and darkness when an immense invasion of darkness causes many “demons” to scatter and flood through the Sentries’ defenses and into the Solthara Realm while some even make it to the Subthara. On Earth, the humans unite and fight against the shadow that slips through the Solthara Realm into the Subthara as the Dred army, but many families bloodlines in Mayrn are cut completely due to some many people dying in all the battles, and the Shadow Legion nearly prevails, but the humans with the aid of some of the Divines create a Well of Mana on Earth that enchants the blood of the humans granting them with magical abilities and helping in defeating the shadow army on Earth and forcing the invading forces to retreat back into the outer darkness of the Nulthara.

Enchanted Age - (The enchanted humans divide themselves into three main groups - Mages, Warlocks, and Witches) due to their differences in abilities and priorities a series of battles start between the Mages and Warlocks some merely territorial battles and others are displays of strength, and some battles are fought with a third side, the non magicals, who do their best to defend their own lands. The mages, for the most part, stay blended with non-magical people in communities and benefit from each other's skills. The Warlocks and Witches' dark magic practices are disliked by the Mages and humans; furthermore, Warlocks and Witches hate each other more vigorously than they are disliked by the other groups and the most gruesome battles are fought between them until…
Wicked War (Witch-Queen’s reign) a dirty war between good and evil is sparked when the last enchanted human, a woman, uses her blood magic to lengthen her life and becomes the first witch and Witch Queen. She takes the interest of Umbra and they make secret conspiracies. After the retreat of the Shadow Legion, she built her ruthless coven cloaked from peering eyes, and she secretly spread her curse across many lands until it becomes obvious that she has full intention to rule all lands and humans and Mages with goodness in their hearts join forces to fight the Witch Queen’s coven but has to unite with the Warlocks to defeat her army and diminish her influence even within allied ranks.
Potential Old World Trilogy: “Legend of Mayrn”
Shadow’s Reach - Invasion of Umbra’s Shadow Legion
The Wicked Queen - Rise and Fall of the Witch Queen and her Coven
Magic Wars - Between humans / mages / warlocks after the fall of the Witch Queen


Tech Age - “The New World” (After the non-magical humans rise in a technological / industrial revolution, the humans declare that Earth has been reborn into a New World) As Science advances to a superior status compared to the limited magic abilities. While the Divines and the unseen evil in the outer darkness are nearly forgotten, Umbra’s forces grow and it continues to corrupt the world again while the humans wage war against each other. Science inevitably wins this war and forces the surviving magical people into hiding. After the Magic Wars end and a new city of science is built and hundreds of years pass, a young man is born and ties a new string of destiny with his unusual existence, as he is not magical and not a completely normal human, many people are entwined in his path as he is guided to his future trying to figure out his lineage. His journey’s lead to the discoveries of existing evils hidden on Earth and learn of the pending return of Umbra which seeds the unification of the Mayrn once more dawning a new age to fight the great evil in the shadows of chaos.
Chaos Skirmish - The Immorals manage to defeat the Earthen Divines (Kolvarin, Platgree, Irial, and Stellan) that guard the Mayrn, not completely but forcing them to retreat into the Solthara leaving the Mayrn helpless. This causes an unlikely alliance between all of the humans to fight against this common enemy, the humans with all their combined abilities and integrated Magic and Science form a new line of heroes who step up to take on The Immorals and Chaos Empire elites that are in the Mayrn head on. The forces in the outer realm regain its strength as The Chaos Empire that is aided by one of the Sentries, Lux, who turns against the light and allows a small gang of dark entities through the star barrier and aids in the dismantling of a crucial watchtower along the border, which allows for an overwhelming Chaos Empire to hammer into the Solthara and the Subthara Realm for a second time with much greater viciousness and haste causing absolute disarray and nearly breaks the order of life completely in all Realms. When all the forces of Solthara and Subthara defeat the exceptional forces, Umbra is forced into the Revenant stone where his Shadow is dwindled into a contained realm of oblivion, escape is an unattainable dream for Umbra while the rest of its minions are allowed to retreat to the outer darkness; the “demons” flee in shambles with cries for their own safety and they rant in the darkness confused of how to continue without the commands of their master.

The moment of peace; the age continues:

The technomancer and ValnaRey (possibly others like a character from Grul’Ukruin) transcend to the Solthara. The technomancer gives the Revenant stone to Vaeya, as she holds the stone, the shadow contained in it viciously attempts to free itself, but is imprisoned deep within. They are allowed to join the council where they may watch as the Divines deliberate on what to do with Umbra’s imprisonment. Many elect to keep it contained, the darkness of the outer realm has ceased all advancements, after all the Subthara is safe if their nemesis is caged. Amae is ultimately the only Divine who wanted Umbra released, Leawu did not cast a vote as usual, she was busy sleeping. Their guests are heard out but do not have a vote in the matter. There was no celebration as the mortals thought there would be. Divines do not relish, they continue their unrelenting work, but the Earthen Divines did have a meal with the mortal heroes after they guided them back to the Subthara. Shortly after their departure, Amae and Mortyn have a private meeting; Mortyn disagrees with Amae regarding freeing the prisoner, but surprisingly Nova sides with Amae. Mortyn asks Nova, “You labored hard and wanted an end to the war&quot;, &quot; why do you have a change of heart?” She calmly replied, “I fear without an enemy, we will turn against ourself.” With this warning Amae is convinced that the balance should be restored. Mortyn goes to Vaeya’s room. She was blissfully weaving Eyra’s hair, so he ducked behind the open door and knocked. Eyra put her cowl back on and they turned toward the door, “You may enter.” Mortyn apologized for the interruption and asked how they were after all the excitement had settled . They were at peace. They chatted for a while about various subjects and future prospects all while Amae and Nova go to where the Revenant Stone is stored. Without warning the Subthara begins to malfunction, Tolen alerts all the other Divines, suddenly a portal forms, several entities step through it, they are Dokk Clerics. Tolen uses his abilities to slow them down but some of the nimble race evades and sneaks around to find Umbra. Vaeya, Eyra, and Mortyn rush to protect the Subthara and as they arrive they see Stellan fighting them in stag for, Irial is protecting Tolen as he tries to close the portal. Mortyn rushes to Stellan while Eyra joins Irial, Veaya rushes to the sleeping Leawu, who is asleep, she shakes Leawu to wake her up, and Leawu gasps awake and begins choking, Vaeya worried and confused helps Leawu over her bed, Leawu spits up black gunk then utters, “I’ve been poisoned.” (By Empra)

The Dokk make it to the Revenant stone and some of them fall to their knees in worship while the others begin to chant in a dark speech. Amae and Nova arrive at the gate. The outer darkness begins to be swirl into madness and the screams of demons shriek rallying their Master, Sentries defend the Solthara. Nova and Amae enter to see the Dokk on their knees starting to fade and become energy that the other Dokk use to swell the Revenant Stone. Soon the shadow breaks free. Umbra is released from the Revenant Stone. Despite being in a weakened , nearly defeated state, hovers menacingly. The Dokk bow then rises and turns to the 4 Divines, prepared for battle. Nova tightens her grip around her glaive and with stare fixated on Umbra. Amae rushes forward with her toward Umbra.

Meanwhile, the Earthen Divines: Irial, Stellan, Platgree, and Kolvari joined by the technomancer and ValnaRey hurry to the continent of Altir, where the Ljos and Wei have been forced out of the Ven Altir and the Dokk are keeping a portal to the Subthara open for Umbra. Umbra is the closest to claiming the Subthara than ever before. 

// Perhaps more and more of the Dokk are flooding Solthara and the only way to manage the threat is for Tolen to let go of the Subthara, disconnecting the Mortal Realm from the Divine Realm and allowing for time to mend; it could prevent Umbra’s access to Earth, but also trap the Earthen Divines within it. The Divines could then finish off the Dokk and focus on Umbra.
With Tolen and Leawu unable to help with their full power, them and Vaeya, Eyra, Nova, Amae, and Mortyn defend Solthara and try to force out Umbra, its Army pushing through the Sentry defenses, while Irial, Stellan, Platgree, and Kolvari attempt to stabilize the Subthara against the Dokk and the reviving Dred and surviving members of the Chaos Empire within it. 


Before the Ages:
Before the beginning of everything, an opaque mist stretched across an endless plane. For an eternity there was only this mist until energy began to ripple through it. These waves of energy began condensing the mist into particles and as the waves lengthened, the particles grew larger, after an unknown period not of linear movement, unbound forms of these particles and energy wiggled into existence. Some of these entities grew very large and had a magnificent blaze that illuminated the now empty spaces around them. There were many other entities that were much smaller and on and on more developed as the first few grew larger. A consequence of self awareness fell on most of these glittering entities. As the radiant maze grew larger, the greatest of the energies gravitated toward each other until all nine of them met. In this center, the entities sparked the first attempt to communicate with one another while the smaller entities watched carefully. The first language was created, which can best be described as the most subtle song of hums. They spoke diligently and became more familiar with each other and themselves; they made comparisons and contrasts of their surroundings then started deliberations as to the understanding of what they all were. The greater of the entities declared themselves as The Divines and gave themselves names to identify themselves. It was agreed they’d be as parents and caretakers to the smaller entities and names were given to them as well. The smaller spirits, as they’d be called, were varying in their behavior. Some of the spirits were also self aware but incomparable to the size and energy of the Divines. This group took the special attention of some of the Divines especially so for two Divines named Vaeya and Mortyki, while another group of the smaller spirits, aware of themselves but wandering around freely, wisped in random patterns through the open spaces between all the other spirits gracefully, these spirits took the attention of the wild Divine, Stellan, who although much larger blended with these spirits naturally as if she was exactly as they were. The last and largest group was seeked out by a silent Divine, Irial, who adored the stationary and peaceful spirits; although, the other Divines didn’t give them much mind as they did not see them as Irial did, these nearly motionless spirits were scattered and not seemingly aware of themselves but casually waded in place as if pondering. The known space they occupied was declared as the Realm. 
All was well between the Divines and spirits until a monstrous entity of immense dark energy uncloaked itself from the emptiness around them where the light of the Divines and spirits didn’t shine. This shock changed the way the existence was seen and understood for the Divines. Mortyki, who quickly became undoubtedly acknowledged as the most intelligent of all the spirits and Divines, identified it as a “Hidden One”, and the Divines took notice of an overwhelming quantity of similarly dark but small entities that secretly gathered behind it and around the rim of light that contained the Realm. Amae shouted for it to halt and Nova rushed to the Hidden One to block its advance, Tolen followed her anticipating a counter maneuver by this new threat; however, It stopped and spoke in a horrible, grim tone in the same language created by the Divines. This terrorized many of the smaller spirits and cause much discomfort and uneasiness among them. The Hidden One identified itself as Umbra, and knew all of the Divines by name calling out Amae with hatred along with Eyra, Nova, and Tolen. It made a blood chilling giggle to itself when it uttered Vaeya’s name and respectfully paused when it looked up to acknowledge Mortyki as a member of its audience, and finally it dismissively mentioned Laewu, Platgree, Kolvarin, Stellan, and Irial as well as the small spirits. It continued to explain that it gazed from a distance and contemplated their deliberations and knowledge even though they had not known of its careful inspection. Mortyki asked for its age, which it hadn't known. In fact, it didn’t know of anything before it saw their glow through the dense mist that had once been all there was. The only agreement between all of them was made (Existence is made of constantly changing and contrasting energies) and Amae proclaimed that an order should be made to utilize all energies. The other Divines agreed; however, Umbra defied the other's plan for order and said that chaos was the way they had been born and it would not be commanded by any. This pushed the self aware small spirits to waive in contention toward the Divines and Umbra alike for they were not given a voice for themselves either. This led to a massive colligation that became greater than the combined energy of the Divines and Umbra together, while the smaller dark spirits did nothing but cower behind Umbra . The horde of spirits in anger demanded they be heard although bickered among themselves as to what their ultimate demand was. Amongst this disorganized episode, Vaeya spoke out to the coalition and gained the alliance of the united spirits and convinced them and the other Divines to join her leadership as the Allmother with the promise of creating a bountiful system that will provide for all who contribute to it. Umbra denied this request and its minions never dared to speak for themselves as they knew Umbra commanded them. This divide became the Universe separated from a collection of light and outer darkness, which Umbra led its followers to where their numbers and location were unknown in the vast emptiness beyond the visible light of the now named First Realm. The outer darkness became the Second Realm. Before disappearing, Umbra pinched at the threshold where it left the light and entered the darkness. It left a reminder of its presence in the form of a black hole. It began to pull all the light of the First Realm toward it as it grew larger and its influence greater, but it became so large it started to pull darkness from the Second Realm too. Then the mist of the universe formed all around the black hole and forced it to shrink. It became exponentially stronger the more it shrank but effortlessly contained in the mist. As it shrank nearly out of the sight, it stopped and all that remained was a shimmering pearlescent gem with flickers of the abyss within it. The Divines took this gem and named it The Revenant Stone, then hid it from the sight of the outer darkness.
The Divines began to fulfill their promise to create a system for the spirits and use their energies to create a Mayrn where all of the spirits can prosper and grow. Mortyki led the design for the architecture of the Mayrn and utilized each of the Divines’ interests to create systems that he knew they’d enjoy and hold. Amae devoted herself to maintaining balance in the Realms, she accepted that darkness must be allowed within the Mayrn but must never be allowed to overrule the light. She passionately checked all the Divine’s work and the whereabouts of the small spirits to assure this balance. Laewu held only one truth to let things freely change and would annoy Amae constantly, but her lesson pleased many of the other Divines. Nova and Tolen dedicated their energy to protecting the realm by creating a dense barrier between the Third and Second Realm. Nova created a shield of stars to ward off the darkness and identify anything that entered. Tolen devised a clever new tool to control any entity to a linear fixed point where if it be a minion of darkness, it can be fended off, or a child of light, who can live a life along this path, he named it Time. The other Divines started their work in the Realm under the stars and within time. A beacon was placed where Umbra held itself during their conversation. It was named the Sun. This is where Vaeya housed herself so the spot would be forgotten as the place where Umbra mocked her and this beacon would become a symbol of hope for her children, which now primarily was the united group of spirits that respected her leadership. She took much time to nurture a form that would reflect her great love for her children and Mortyki made many inputs as to the design of their brains to allow independent expansion of thought to be born with every new child. Platgree used all of his will and strength to mend matter into the solid worlds of the Mayrn and his favorite he named Earth and it was decided this would be where Vaeya’s children would live, and the other Divines would create their systems here as well. Platgree was also tasked to create the Moon by Amae so when the Earth traveled around the Sun and one side would be facing away the light then the Moon could reflect the Sun’s light back on the Earth, “As there are shadows in the light, there must be light in the shadows''. Platgree had no issue with the reason for this request, but it did take much energy to complete and when he was finished he shrank to a smaller size and laid comfortably on the hard rocks on his favorite mountain where he rested and watched with glee as his sister’s and brother’s delighted in their creations. Laewu would occasionally lay with and watch peacefully with Platgree when she was feeling especially lazy. Kolvarin experimented with several, and at times volatile, scheme’s creating great and horrific storms in oceans which filled the deep cracks of the uneven Earth, and he created wind to carry the breeze and new smells of this new world. Then he fashioned fire, which ignited a childish desire to burn something and he laughed out loud, Laewu just so happened to be with him when he did so and joined him in joyful laughter, but then Kolvarin quickly looked over his shoulder where he knew he’d see the ever insightful Amae approaching due to his outburst, and he quickly crafted ice inorder to convince her of the balance that she unrelentingly demanded, and to his surprise she allowed it and he found an equal happiness with ice as he did fire and all his other elements. Stellan and Irial worked together to create forests and the creatures within them as well as other terrains to harbor other types of beasts and even created sea bound plants and creatures that swam with elegance as well as birds to be carried on the breezes that precariously lifted them high in the sky thanks to Kolvarian’s waters and winds. This beautiful harmony pleased all the Divines and after many cycles of the planet and its inhabitants evolving and adapting to one another, Vaeya was ready to present her gift to the Mayrn, the Allmother took the form that she had so elegantly crafted and took her closest spirits and gracefully held in then in her arms and suddenly they appeared on the Earth as the first women and men. The other Divines admitted this form was beautiful and many took this form as well, but Stellan and Irial preferred their wild forms. This delighted Vaeya and the songs of the heavens hummed throughout all the Realms as all the spirits danced and sang of their joy. This began the Dawn of Mortals.

Timeline Dates:
21,166 (Linear time) documented linear years and around 1,000 generations

First Age (FA): 

0 (FA)

Inauguration of first High Regent Veana Heavendawn of Nildon 
1000 (FA) 
Under 3rd Nil Queen
Exploration
5023 (FA) 
Under 11th Nil Queen
Declaration of Dosram Indepence
5033 (FA)

First Mayrn War
5120 (FA)

World Exploration
5120 (FA)

Enul Lands are claimed
5121 (FA)

Thuun set sail West
5122 (FA)

Wend set sail South
5125 (FA)

Conflicts between Wend and Thuun begin
6151 (FA)
Under 13th Nil Queen
End of First Mortal War
8873 (FA)
Under 17th Nil Queen
Shadow Conquest Begins

Hallowed Knights are formed
10762 (FA)
Under 21st Nil Queen
Dawn of Magic

Arcanem built in Nilgree, Zyrax’s inauguration as Archmage of Arcanem 

Old Guard is formed
10840

THE REVEN

Donrid is destroyed
Amanor is destroyed
10842

The first Mayrn alliance against the Dred
10843 (FA)

End of Shadow Conquest // when Umbra’s Legion is forced out of Subthara

Second Age (SA):

010
10853 (Linear)

147 (SA)
11000 (Linear)
22nd Regina Vaena inauguration and Witch Queen declares herself the most powerful queen and should be queen of Nildon
2886 (SA)
13739 (Linear)
Magic Wars begin 
3147 (SA)
14000 (Linear)
29th Regina Vaena inauguration
3579 (SA)
14432 (Linear)
Wicked War begins when Nildon is attacked by Witch Queen and 29th Queen Vaena is murdered with the rest of her bloodline
3631 (SA)
14,484 (Linear)
Mages and Warlocks truce and focus on the Witch Queen to end the Wicked War
7443 (SA)
18,296 (Linear)
Wicked War Ends
7463 (SA)
18,316 (Linear)
Magic Wars continue
8147 (SA)
19000 (Linear)
Wicked Witch goes to Grul’Ukruin
9963 (SA)
20,816 (Linear)
Magic Wars End

Third Age (TA):

4 (TA)
20820 (Linear)
Pearl City Declared // Magic Outlawed
200 (TA)
21,016 (Linear)
Technological Revolution 
(future type tech)
1999 (TA)
21,015 (Linear)
First Book
2053 (TA)
21,069 (Linear)
Second Book
2104 (TA)
21,120 (Linear)
Third Book 
(Start of Chaos Skirmish)
2150 (TA)
21,166 (Linear)

// Currently all that’s been written
Almost End of Chaos Skirmish 
(6 years after third book)
When the Technomaner transcends to the Solthara to give the captured Umbra to the Divines. Shortly, The Dokk’Altir transcend to Solthara to release Umbra




______________________________________________________________________

Dawn of Mortals
As the first women and men appeared on the land declared Emaryn, the dawn of the First Age started. The people named themselves the Nil and the land within sight was called Nilgree, but could not remember their time in the First Realm as they couldn't comprehend anything outside the limitations of the Mayrn although they walked with the Divines and were consoled with the thought that the Divines knew and that they had been chosen by the Divines to be on the Earth to live as they wished. That first day all the people played and danced and sang in their own language which was very simple, especially compared to the first language. As the first night approached, the Divines left the Nil to check their systems and defenses of the Mayrn. Over the years, The Nil began having relationships with each other and the women began bearing children of their own. With every birth of a new child, worship to the Allmother increased and shrines were built depicting a beautiful woman after her image. The people built shrines for the other Divines to acknowledge their gratitude to them as well although the shrines and Divines they represented didn't get the most remembrance or praise. This didn’t bother the other Divines for they found pride in their own works. 
—--------------------
The society of Nil revered the Divines. The first woman to be made by Vaeya was assigned to be Regina Vaena Heavendawn, leader and First Queen of the Nil. Her husband would be the leader for the men. He and the other men primarily spent their time working in the community or managing the buildings as far as construction as well as exterior and interior design. Many men had similar hobbies such as: socializing usually while cooking, dining, foraging, fishing, hunting, and tending farm lands. It was very normal for towns to be close with regular social events and parties where families would celebrate the Divines, most towns were centered by a community complex where all grades of schooling as well as sporting centers, and welfare centers like eldercare, youngcare, and burdencare were available, so the entire community was near one another. The women held leadership roles which didn’t bother the men because that gave them more free time. The women under Regina Vaena Heavendawn planned developments for the future of Nil. They strategized the resources of the land, and most of all mothered children which was the greatest and most burdening labor on the mortals of the Mayrn. The harmony of this separation of tasks between the people created an order that pleased them and also did not contest the nature and animals around them. As decades passed, a city named Nildon became an unmistakable site on the face of the Mayrn which stretched from the nearby coast of the ocean in the West to the dense forest a few miles East. To the North a great plain laid flat and mountains could be seen in the far distance and the coast continued South-ward along with the dense forest; however, the Nil required more land and resources to continue their duties. Vaena and her council agreed that exploration of the land would offer optimal locations for more villages and patrols of Nil scouts were prepared. They ventured through the dense forests and found many more creatures and plants that they hadn’t known of before, documentation of all their discoveries were made and maps drawn of these new lands. 
Many years later, all the information that was collected by the patrols returned to Nildon and deliberations started as to the best way to proceed with expansion. The first villages were designed and volunteers set out to build them and make paths connecting them. Similar hierarchies were established in the communities but Vaena would remain the highest authority in Nilgree which now expanded further into the landscape. To the South and East, two villages were built on opposite ends of a large river named the Thway. The village in the South, deemed as Amanor. It stood on the short cliffs off the coast and at the mouth of the Thway river where the wide river met the salty ocean. This village was under the appointed leadership of Madam Caia Heartune, who’s loyalty to her service to the Queen and to all of the Nil would be unmatched and they would, in later years, build the greatest navy that the Mayrn would ever see, and although not an easy task and took many years to complete, a great stone bridge was ably made to cross the wide Thway River just within the town’s limits. A path was drawn around the massive dense forest to a village in the East, and the people settled near the Thway River as explained before but here the Thway acted much differently. It roared from the North and its strong current would throw any against the huge sharp rocks that scattered throughout rapids at the river’s hard turn as it cut its way to the western coast. The town was named River's Bend and its people were commanded by Madam Wilo Lightbane. Much hardship fell on the people of River’s Bend starting on the first night and many nights after for they were frequently attacked by evil mutations of mimicked humans called dreds and nightmarish beasts, some that crawled and gnawed at flesh that dissolved from the acidic spit from the massive bugs called drens and others called woldreds that hunted in packs and ate bones. All of these evil creatures bled black and blared horror into the ears of the villagers. The people quickly built sturdy forts and walls to guard their homes from the attackers that charged out of the dense forest. Word of these horrors and constant attacks made its way to Nildon and Regina Vaena had forces trained in Nildon and Amanor to be sent as reinforcements to River’s Bend; nothing prepared them for the terror they’d suffer and they became harden and ruthless humans that eventually did not fear the raids but welcomed the challenge to dull their sharp blades on cursed flesh and iron and bloody their steel arrows with their enemies black sap. When the battles concluded on those nights, the town’s people would gather in victory and have a feast in the eating halls and make special prayers to the Allmother, Vaeya, and the honorable justicess Amae. 
To the North, a bustling village was built in the middle of the plains. There were seven families with no one leader but they made decisions based on majority rule; however, regina Vaena appointed Madam Thea Brightwind as a liaison for them in Nildon, the Brightwind family, over the decades, would occasionally travel to their village to assure that Queen Vaena’s rule was respected within her lands. The first settlers of this village built farms and ranches to provide food as well as inns and stores to trade and provide services; a wealthy barter system and currency was established as many more new travelers from Nildon and the other cities would stop here then continue their travels wherever they chose. The village’s name would soon be forgotten and pleasantly replaced the title of the Crossroads as four paths would be carved into the plains in the cardinal directions and all sorts of tales for conversations and goods for trade would make their way into or pass through this city. Several people made the crossroads their home over the years, but 5 families became very wealthy and influential in the land because of the Crossroads location and ability to attract travelers; these families were the Dons, Nupleys, Kimirs, Polks, and Hamels. These families would use their wealth to increase their power through many means whether it be politics, war, or trade and the feud and alliances between them changed nearly as the sun would rise and set each day. The last of the first settlements was further than all the others in the North Eastern part of Nildon, which geographically speaking is East of the Crossroads and North of River’s Bend named Onyet was built on the SouthWest side of the lake Oyet which sat near the beginning of the raging river that ran South, the very river that hugged River’s Bend as it wrapped around the city. The people who traveled across the plains did not make a dedicated path straight to the city and relied on new arrivals to create roads from either the Crossroads or River’s Bend which inevitably were made. Before being connected to the rest of the Nil villages, the people of this fishing village lived peacefully in solitude and crafted boats to glide on the lake and fish. This village became Amanar and they were led by Madam Mayal Azurehigh. The peace lessened but was not erased from the lives of the people of Amanar when the solitude was broken, but fear from the evil in the South and greed of the West made them desire independence from the affairs of their neighboring cities.
	Four thousand years passed, several other cities dotted the lands of Nilgree along with villages along the paths to these cities. In the far West of Nilgree, two cities developed, Conya placed itself in a peninsula along the shared coast of Nildon and Amanor; however, Conya was far north and a bay separated the peninsula and the coasts of Nildon and Amanor. North of Conya, Hende perched near the coast and in the mountains that stretched from the Western ocean to the East where these mountains created a wall that continued into the tallest mountains of the far East, the tallest of them named Mount Plat after the Land Divine himself whereas a legend foretold that the peak was his home. This mountain wall had only one level path through it where just beyond the opening the town of Briskden was built. North of Lake Oyet, two more cities, Onyet and Takhren, quickly appeared along its banks and many small fishing villages. They traded among each other but the people of each society rarely ran into each other on the open waters for it took three days to cross from one side to the other of the lake. The lands beyond the mountain wall in the North were claimed by people who traveled there in the beginning of the expansion of the first people, who then declared their independence from the reign of the first Regina Vaena’s lineage, Regina Vaena Heavendawn the Eleventh, who had ruled for many years after her mother’s long and successful reign as the tenth queen of Nilgree.

Northren Independence
The Northern people called themselves the Dosram and their greatest stronghold, Donrid, was shaped out of the mountains that bordered the North of their lands, which was named Dosramgree and had harsh winters for the cold winds came from the North and wheeled along the mountains that circled the land. More cities and villages had been strategically positioned in Dosramgree and many followed under the demands of the Dosram’s newly declared Summum Caput Rien Highwind while some stayed loyal to the first royal family, The Heavendawns of Nilgree. A city was built in the West of Dosramgree near the mountain wall and was called Solkri. Also crafted out of the mountain wall between Solkri and Briskden the town of Nohren was sprung up. In the summer, a tall and fierce waterfall started to the strong river, Thway, that led South of Donrid to a lake, named Dolre, that froze over in the winter along with falls and river. Two cities sat next to this lake and on the western side was Jolhran. On the east, there was Mogh. South of Mogh and East of Briskden and the Thway River was the town of Vikren, where a difficult and narrow path edged around the mountain wall near the opening where the Thway ran through it to Takhren. The tension between the Dosram and Nil sharpened. After a long series of meetings that Queen Highwind hosted in order to obtain her independence from Nil, an agreement was made that the Nil would acknowledge the Dosram as its own nation and recognized their lands which Regina Heavendawn decided she would allow to avoid a war that would cause unnecessary death and destruction, but a non-negotiable line be drawn by the Nil to decide their borders that must be respected by the Dosram otherwise it will be seen as a direct violation of the treaty and war will be declared. Caput Highwind wished to see Regina Heavendawn’s proposed border. A map was brought out and laid on the table between the queens. The border was drawn above the town Briskden and followed the large, raging river, Thway, through the wide and steep mountains and stopped at the lake, Oyay, where the line stopped then ran horizontally to the set of mountains that ran vertically, no one had ventured past these mountains so it was left unclaimed. Highwind argued that the town of Briskden belonged in Dosramgree, but Heavendawn was firm in her demands and said that Briskden was loyal to Nil, and it was fair that she left the town Takhren, which was South of the mountain wall and East of the Thway and loyal to the Dosram, to her instead of drawing the line at the mountains alone. They both reluctantly signed the peace treaty and no person from either land was allowed to travel across the border unless given undeniable approval from the other’s authority to enter their land. Heavendawn was pleased that she kept Briskden because it stood at the opening of the only direct path through the mountains separating the Nil and Dosram 
Spark of Conflict
A decade later, the people of Briskden were surprised by the arrival of Dosram soldiers and even more so that they did not charge in attack. The soldiers harassed the people but didn’t harm anyone. Madam Wen Frostkin was held in her home against her will and the highest ranking Dosram soldier had all the advisors forcefully gathered into the town's leadership office building. A Briskden civilian sneaks away and rides to a nearby watchtower where the soldiers urgently send a message by bird to Nildon for Regina Heavendawn to inform her of what took place at Briskden. Morhri, the most clever and only male Nil advisor, sensed that these actions were too bold and not hostile enough to be called an outright invasion. He predicted that a specific Briskden financial advisor has betrayed Nil, he has been respected for his insightfulness since he was a small boy and ingenious mind had never been incorrect before. In his childhood, he watched his father and older brothers build an eating hall where he caught a design flaw before it had even been built or even seeing the building plans and took his observations to the women engineering the building. They awed this small boy and pleaded with Regina Vaena Heavendawn II to allow him to go through women’s elevated education, which she allowed. After timidly but easily dominating every lesson and course he learned, he joined the advisor as the youngest member of the Nil Advisory Council. His prediction of this betrayal caught the attention of the Commander of the Nil Army “The Nilvar”, Qenla, who was the first woman to assume a leadership role in any army because her bravery and strength even as a young woman outmatched any man. On the day of her official womanhood she was in so much pain from her first menstruation that she could not sit at her desk to prepare for her exams and joined her father and brothers in the fields where they hauled hay bales. Her mother shouted from the front porch but was muted by Qenla’s agony as she ripped two heavy bails from the ground onto her shoulders so the weight could distract her pain, and her family paused, puzzled by the sight of this young girl walking toward the barn to store the hay. She passed her exams but denied the invitation to go to college and joined the ranks of the Nilvar where she excelled at every physical and academic task. She became a very well respected general until her haste promotion to Commander, the highest rank of the Nilvar.
Together Qenla and Morhri explained their theory to Regina Vaena Heavendawn and with her permission they, along with a hundred soldiers, traveled to Briskden to confront the town’s head financial adviser and reinforce the two military watchtowers with forty men each. The watchtowers were positioned south of Briskden on each side of the path beside the steep rims of the mountain's opening. They and their company took the three and a half week-long trip North through the Crossroads to Briskden, they arrived and found a well guarded town in Dosram control. The soldiers had no leader and allowed Qenla and Mohri as well as the few soldiers with them into Briskden, but the air was thick with aggression. While some of the soldiers stayed outside, Qenla and Mohri and a couple men went into the head financial advisors office and investigated his records then arrested him when they found proof of the conspiracy. They led him out of his office and found their men casually surrounded by the Dosram; Morhri offered for the Dosram to leave as they only needed the betrayer and they would be pardoned of this violation of the peace treaty without fear of consequences. The Dosram men readied themselves and the Nil prepared defensive positions. Fight ensues and the Nil win leaving few casualties on either side. They force the Dosram out of Briskden. Qenla told the survivors to tell their generals under the will of Queen Vaena Heavendawn (11) that war between Nil and Dosram was officially declared for the treason, trespass, and unprovoked assault in Briskden. The Dosram fumbled and made their exit. Qenla and Morhri returned to Nildon with their prisoner while the other men stayed in Briskden and the watchtowers; they were warned to keep an eye out for an assault and promised that they’d bring reinforcements. A scout was also sent to the nearest town Oyan to warn and acquire more soldiers to defend the borders of their lands. The First War of the Realms began and the Nil and Dosram would fight relentlessly. When Quenla and Morhri make it back to Nildon and alter the queen that the War has begun, she sat up on her throne and steadily spoke, “Notify our allies and prepare the men, the conflict we all have feared has begun.” Word spread quickly and chills ran down many peoples' backs. In most towns people weep as they knew that their daughters and son’s, wives’ and husbands would be summoned to defend their homes. Some young adults collected their belongings, said goodbye to their elder and younger family members, and went to their towns barracks where they’d be equipped and trained to assist the guards of the town in they were called to join the Nilvar on the offense or in the case that their village would become the target to an enemy army’s attack and they’d need to defend their homes. 
Over the years, many people in Nilgree traveled East to avoid the conflict and peacefully abandoned loyalty to the Nil, creating a new community of the Enul people and naming their previously undeclared land Enulgree. Two groups of people made ships and took to the seas. One of the groups left from Conya naming themselves the Ata and headed South along the coast while the other left from Solkri as the Thun people and traveled on the open waters further West to discover what was beyond the horizon of the setting sun. These groups of people would not rejoin the history of the western lands for a long while, and they created their own traditions that became very different from the first people. 
The year is 5033FA, Qenla leads the entirety of the Nilvar toward Briskden. Morhri advised it be no use for her to spend resources and men to obtain the Dosram loyal town, Takhren, and she knew why. The town had no direct advantage for the Dosram advance being that it was blocked by the mountains. As the Nilvar got to the mountains, they were halted by a pack of Olrek’s, mountain trolls for the quickest comparison. The larger one’s stood eight feet tall but they all had long mangled hair covering their bodies and large tusks about their mouths that jolted outward when they roared. The smaller of the kind were half the size of their counterparts but quicker and would charge onto anything that angered them and bit ferociously, while the larger Olreks favored throwing boulders from higher on the slopes of the mountains. “We definitely should trouble them,” urged Morhri. “There is no choice, we must move forward to aid Briskden, perhaps we can manage to cross without threatening them,” replied Qenla. They advanced slowly and did not unsheath their weapons nor look toward the trolls, who parted to the sides of the path as the Army continued along. They were hesitant and not willing to take on such a number of intruders, but some would rush near the army and swipe at the soldiers legs and hurry back into the tree line or behind rocks to avoid retaliation. More than half of the Army made it through the pack when an inhuman roar was heard in the peaks of the mountain to the West. Birds flew from their tree’s to the opposite direction. A rumble in the rhythm of quick steps became louder and louder. Qenla yelled, “Leaden haste to Briskden!” The front half of the army marched quickly to the North, “Morhri follow them!” He obeyed his order. “Rearen!” The soldiers stood at attention, “West Guard!” The soldiers on the western side of the army turned to their left facing the west. They held up their shields and the first row kneeled and allowed the second row to lift their shields beside them to interlock with the first rows making a hard wall as tall as they were. “East Astute!” The soldiers unsheathed their swords and ready against any orleks that chose to charge from the East. Lastly, Qenla called the archers in the middle of the army, “Rangers! West inbound! Nock!” The heavy steps caused the ground to tremble and the olreks began to scream in excitement. Some of the olreks did attempt to attack the army from the East but were quickly halted or killed. The trees in the West began to crack and bend, and Qenla called out, “Rangers draw!” A huge Orlek nearly ten feet tall pushed a tree out of its way and revealed itself with a horrible deep roar. Qenla yelled, “Loose!” The rangers let their arrows fly toward the large orlek, but it was holding a huge boulder that blocked many of the shots from harming it. It crossed the tree line and lifted the boulder over its head. Qenla shouted, “West Guard break into sparrows!” These few words meant more to the soldiers than to us, but I will explain. Sparrows is a formation that means small groups move quickly and in a coordinated way to create distance and strategic advantage against the enemy. The soldiers quickly broke their wall and moved to their formation, but at the same time the pack released all their small orleks hazardously from the West and East and forced the Nilvar to regroup in the middle of the path instead of spreading as far as they’d have liked to. Qenla shouted, “Rangers free!” meaning that they could fire at will and all of them knew to focus their aim on the large orlek. She called for the soldiers nearest her to follow and she led them around the tree line behind the large orlek as it began swinging its rocks around and smashing it against the Nilvar. The Rangers did well to distract the creature and force it to protect itself from fire instead of smashing, but many of the smaller olreks were causing problems with containing the lines. Qenla and her small group fought through the trees and made their way behind the orlek, but they were surrounded quickly and the group had to fight hard to defend themselves. Qenla knew the orleks were only so confident because of the large one and decided it was the only priority, she told the soldiers to continue fighting and to stay alive and she ran toward the large olrek. She charged with her sword nearly resting on her shoulder, aimed at its neck, she leaped off a small boulder and made enough air to pierce the orleks upper back and caused it to drop its rock. She held onto the sword and placed her feet on its hips and she tried to shove the sword deeper into its back as it helplessly tried to grab her. The Rangers began to shoot at its face and eventually the creature was unable to stand or bear the pain any longer and crashed to its knees then fell on the ground. Qenla ripped the blade from its back while the smaller orleks fled the battle and she sheathed it. The rest of the army did the same. “Good work Nil! Casualty report.” A soldier walked over to her and said there were seven casualties and eleven wounded but many were minor. Qenla commanded for their bodies to be put in a wagon that was holding supplies, but each soldier carried a small portion of the supplies to make room for their fallen comrades. They continued to Briskden where the rest of the Nilvar were and had already fortified the city and kept watch for the pending Dosram assault that hadn’t come yet. Qenla asked Morhri, “No sight of Dosram?” Morhri slightly surprised answered, “There is not an obviously sign of them. I am beginning to assume they weren’t as prepared as we had thought.” Qenla entertained the thought but did not believe this to be true, “We wouldn’t be here if we truly thought that.” Morhri agreed and they continued to a building that had been made into a makeshift war room with a map thrown on the table and marks scattered across it. “We’ve made it to Briskden with no threat from Dosram, but I’d rather have faced even a fifteen foot orlek instead of allowing the Dosram to take Briskden freely.” Morhri sat silently and pondered the reasons why the Dosram would not have already attempted to take Briskden before they secured the position. Qenla asked if there was any word from their spies and a messenger replied, “Not this week, but the last word was that forces were mobilizing to Vikren, Mogh, and Nehren. Morhri stood suddenly, “Nehren!” Qenla turned to him and asked him to speak his thoughts. Morhri said, “it would be foolish for the Dosram to try to move through the small passes across the mountains from Vikren to Takhren and from Nehren to Hende due to the dangerous terrain and inability to move large forces, but it is equally foolish for them to waste supplies and mobilize a bulk of their forces to try to make it through the mountain pass through Briskden, which they know we would defend strongly. Qenla was confused, “I’m not understanding your point.” Morhri laughed to himself, “It’s foolish and unwise, but clever because we didn’t see it before. We believed them to be direct as winter, but instead they are as running water. They’ve allowed for slow progress through the unguarded passes through the mountains and I induce they’ve shielded our spies from their true intentions and distracted us with movements toward Briskden, but they wish to move most of their army from Nehren to Solkri and use the sea to avoid the mountains entirely.” Qenla angrily clenched her fist and replied, “You believe us to have prepared against a ploy then and we’ve moved many soldiers away from the coast and mountain cities allowing them freedom to move their troops in secret.” Morhri signed and agreed. Qenla rushed for ravens to send word to Nildon and to Conya to prepare for a seabourn attack as well as Hende regarding the possible infiltration of enemy troops. Morhri sensed sabotage was the best strategy for Hende to be taken swiftly. 

Cont. First Age: First Battles (Land and Sea)

	The Enul People, as stated earlier, traveled by land, East; their first pioneer journey began in 5120FA, where they found a beautiful scene of grasslands and forests. They continued to travel until they reached a lone hill in the midst of a vast meadow, Lun as it would be named. Most of the people began to unload their carts and constructed their temporary sheds that could be added to and improved to make decent homes, but a small group made their way up the hill which although not too high, they could get a better look of their surroundings. A calm breeze met their embrace as they reached the top, then at the peak a cold chill pierced from the North where dark clouds hovered over tall dark mountains in the far North. They seemed to continue East forever, but split by a river, quickly decided to be named as the Elu, it flowed out of the distant mountains and continued South where a lake formed, Poulne became the lake's name. In the far South along the coast below Nilgree, the dense forest with its vibrant deep green on the horizon. The North Mountains sprawled as far West as they could see as well all the way to the entrance of the valley from which they traveled from, Nilgree.The cold north was a vast empty space with no grass or trees or even a hint of life could be seen, but a large cloud of dust formed near the Earth in the furthest North East and it was decided to avoid the North and specifically the North East at all cost. They went back down to the settling community and they reported their news to all the people. Their leader, Vinya Greysong, an elderly but sturdy woman that didn't care for titles or rights to ownership over the will of others, decided they’d be better to stay near the south of hill for it would block the chilling wind from the North when winter would come in a few months, everyone agreed, and they built the community, Lonun, for which they volunteered Greysong to continue to be their wise leader as Young Eld. They planted seeds and built farms for their animals and their homes were dug into the group making several layers with mirrors to reflect light into lower levels. The rocks dug up would be used to build a first level and made for strong homes and were hard to notice most of the time. Underground rivers were found in the Earth and these usually dictated where other communities settled. All was relatively peaceful. Harmony was secure between the Enul, but the North would awaken in the night. The Enul people would find solace in reverence. Some nights the North shadow brought monsters, Dred soldiers that attacked communities seemingly at random. It was soon discovered that rare scouting parties were sent out and late night parties with large fires would be noticed, the slaughters were brutal for the Enul had no real weaponry or training against an aggressive foe. The raids weren’t frequent, yet another large community was established closer to Lake Poulne, named Quietun, they eventually would hear of the piracy of the Wend and the stories of the Thuun and Array, some of the Enul would did not want to live in fear of the Dred night raids and of the piracy of the Wend voted to create another community, they traveled just within the dense forest that stretched from Enul into South Nil, this tree-bound city was called Forlun, and the residents built hunts and bridges that connected the tall trees, there were many threats below in the cursed forest, but up in the trees there was little worry, other than giant spiders and flying Dregs, but the evil in the forest was mostly unorganized and easily manageable by the citizens of Forlun, who continued their peaceful quiet lives in reality solace.

Cont. Enul Beginnings

	The Thuun people elected five of them, Hovan, Fron, Loi, Verr, and Bek, as their five captains of their five ships of steel and wood to sail across the ocean to the unknown far West. The suns and moons of the first week rose and fell over the seemingly flat ocean and the crews of the ships enjoyed their travels, but every moment after that week was wet, cold, and ruthlessly. It was as if they awoke the virgin sea like their ships challenged its untouched waters as the ships cut through the waves, and it summoned an endless, harsh storm that rocked the waves into walls and smashed the ships with callous intent. The Thunra sailors had to harden against the storm and act as a singular unit to maneuver and survive the unknown length of ocean between them and the next land. They challenged Kolvari’s tempest and were met with the heaviest storms. One of the ships was lost in this storm. The rest of the Thuun had to muster all of their strength and they tied all their ships together to make a more stable and less vulnerable target for Kolvari laughed in excitement and sent larger waves to meet their united ship. The next few days seemed endless to them, with no end in sight they lost all personal ambition and only lived to keep each other safe. They worked together not as individuals with a common goal no longer, but as one people, a singular entity that chose to live despite the hardship and against falling victim to the path they’ve chosen themselves. The storm cleared and they hadn’t realized they were already on land until the sun bled through the clouds. The Thuun looked around their new home and deconstructed their ships to make shelter on the land. They praised Kolvari for their hardship that drove them to unity and never spoke ill of the elemental god. They praised Amae the goddess of balance and knew that their hardship would be met with many tidings in their new home. They thanked Platgree for the Earth and Irial and Stellan for the life in their new home. They blessed Tolen for their time of trials and Novastra for the stars that guided them forward before the storm and Mortyn for their will to endure and survive their travel with their minds and most of all they sang in celebration for the Allmother, Vaeya, for their life and hope. Over the thousands of years of their time on their home the Isle of Thuunrow, they created a society of greatness, their law was constructed identically with that of morality, even petty theft resulted in banishment, but the Thuun being banished normally would volunteer to self-sacrifice instead of living in the wilds disgraced by their homeland. They would prioritize their conflict against the Thuunrath and not emerge from their fortress until the height of Shadow Conquest, to protect the Sanctuary. Afterwards they stayed unfocused on Mayrn during the Wicked War and would not join the rest of Mayrn until Dae, the technomancer, recruited them to help defeat the Chaos Empire.

Only a few Thuun would travel to the lands of Nil, Dosram, and Enul. The most well known is Kron, the Traveling Thuun. 
Cont. Thuun Beginnings



	Many ships left from the coast of Nil and while some stayed in the loyalty of Nil, most renamed themselves the Wend as they sailed South and curved up into the Bay in south Mayrn. As they followed the land it wrapped around the mainland and many followed the curve but others dared to continue onward, and although it took many decades to hear news of their journeys. The other sailors settled in other lands and became the nations of the Ralli in the lands of Dal’lan, who are in the southwest while the other parts of the land are ruled by giant insects, and the Arra of the Array islands, who deal with the piracy of the Wend and the colony in Grul’Ukruin. 

The Wend sailors followed the mainland and found plenty of islands and resources to satisfy their hard trip and many ended their travel seemingly early compared to others to claim land that was available on the coast but the majority continued until they set eyes on a marvelous bay, protected from major seaborn storms. They began claiming lands and bickering as to where one’s land ended and the other’s began while some of the crews of ships found opportunity and attacked these settled people and stole their resources. As I’m sure you can imagine this was met with retaliation and the formation of alliances for protection which led to more retaliation and so on. This led to the never ending and always changing organized anarchy that would become of the Wendo Bay. Around this bay, three large cities of the most unified people would form. In the Western border, Outa-way and on the Eastern, Havagutim, and in the Northern end, the soon to be declared capital, Wenyoraft . Plundering and betraying would become commonplace in this bay and although many people found treasures and gain temporary satisfaction of the win, it would always be met with a bigger adversary that would steal their winnings and force the desperate cycle to continue. 

Cont. Wend:

	The people who sailed further west either met the horrors of the north coast of Dal’lan or followed the south coast of Mayrn and came into contact with the Thuun who were already established with a strong fortress. They warned of danger, but seemed vigilantly passive, yet they did not understand that a formidable foe was ramped in those parts of East Mayrn. Some of the sailors were angry that the Thuun denied them in their Fortress and did not trust the Thuun’s proof of unclaimed islands off the coast to the east, thinking it was a trick, some of the sailors turned back to the establishing Wend pirate naval empire, while the others set sail trusting the Thuun and scattered among the found to be existing and bountiful islands and although the islands came with their own struggles, the civilizations became strong trading posts and from time-to-time would have the Thuun as guest’s and trading partners until eventually the Thuunrath would begin to raid their islands. The Arra negotiated an alliance with the Thuun that prevented any major cities from being too far lost before their combined reinforcements retaliated against the Thuunrath.
Cont. Array:

	Dal’lan, translated Mother land, where the Ralli settled, is home to large insects, in comparison to the Ralli the ants are the size of large horses, and they are not the largest creatures of the land. The coast which the Ralli ported on was owned by a colony of ants and although tension was high when they first encountered each other. The Ralli did not attack them without being attacked first. The colony would soon reveal themselves as the Omai, and they spoke not from mouths but to the minds of the Ralli and offered their leader to meet with their queen. John Hull would take a small group of his best soldiers and follow the Omai to their home mound, which was a mountain compared to the dense forest of grass surrounding it. They traveled to the top but the Ralli were too slow, so the ants offered to carry them to get to the queen before sundown. They rode them and it felt strange but enjoyable, efficient at most and that satisfies both the Ralli and the Omai. The queen presented herself as Ja’Kiara and John Hull responded kindly. Ja’Kiara offered for the Ralli to take shelter in her colony if they would adapt to her culture and language, and provide for the betterment of all within the colony. Ralli agreed but wanted to withhold his own culture as well. After deliberating, the Ralli proved to have useful capabilities that the Omai wished to use such as better architecture and medical abilities They agreed to unify with Ja’Kiara as Queen and John Hull as Je’Hull the King, not as a marriage but a shared leadership between the two. Over the years their bond became less strategic and stronger than family, they became one colony with the strengths of both people, they kept the name as Ralli and allowed for their army to be called the Omai. Warrior ant eggs and the infants of the strong Ralli laid together to deepen their physic connection and as they grew and trained they became the most fearsome warriors of their land and the neighboring seas.After hundreds of years this unity was learned across the land and a rival colony challenged them. This was a long and feudal conflict that neither side benefited from; furthermore, hearing of this war other insects began to interfere and joined the battle, some thinking this was for valuable land or resources, food, wasps and roaches the size of elephants began to contend for the battleground. The Omai were the most feared due to their advanced flight strategies and mounted fighters, whenever a dozen would glide into an area, many creatures would hide and not engage with them, but the rival colony, Kooma, dared to face them. Overwhelming victories were claimed by the Omai, but the issue of other’s involving themselves created a hard campaign to cease the war for good. The leaders of the Omai fighters were Te’Jok and Ta’Woan, both of which led their squads with tenacity and mercy when either were required. By the third age, this long regrettable war for all involved, became too much for the lineage of Je hull, who carried his name, to bear and wanted to end it all with one great show of force. He demanded that all the warriors bear children to carry their names and left some warriors to train them in the future and took the rest of the army to engage the chaotic warzone. Ja’Kiara wanted to discuss this erratic decision, but she too was tired of this war that she and her mother and mother before her were born into, if there was a chance for peace they both were willing to lay down their lives to obtain it. This massive advancement was led in three parts the left by Te’Jok, with 72 pairs of warriors as well as the right by Ja’Woan with the same formation and then the largest was the center led by Je’Hull with twice the pairs as each flank. The buzz of this army as they entered the warzone was unheard before by the insects of Dal’lan and the fighting stopped for a moment, Je’Hull dove alone toward the center of the battle and declared he wished to meet with the leaders of each clan that fought for a stake in this warzone. The Kooma didn’t respect the Omai and the wasps and roaches had no leader and did not listen to this demand, they instead began to charge at him. The Omai responded with an incredible dance of skill in combat and as they swarmed the armies from the sides the center gathered around their King to aid in his engagement with the enemy, which seemed to all side against the Omai. By the end of that day, the battlefield was quiet, only a few on each side survived and returned to lands which they came from. Only a small group of the Omai returned and a warrior named Te’Lee gave Ja’Kiara the news of the war’s end and the cost at which it was achieved. She wept for days, her cries heard throughout the mound and the sorrow flowed through all the hearts of the Ralli. That day became, Di Te’Brai, the “Day of the Brave Omai '' and it became a day of sorrowful and celebratory remembrance of the sacrifice the Omai made for peace in Dal’lan. Although the Kooma did not agree with the Ralli’Omai they accepted this holiday and so did other colonies. The Omai became an authority figure throughout the land and as they grew their strength back, they aided the land as best they could to maintain the peace, but the wasps and roaches never took kindly to losing the war and maintained their adversarial opposition to the Omai and other colonies. During the time of the first book the rulers of the Ralli’Omai are the son and daughter of the Je’Hull and Ja’Kiara who ruled at the war’s end, but we focus on their son and daughter Je’Ne’Hull and Ja’Na’Kiara, who are the heirs to the throne but teenagers as Dae begins to learn of his destiny (By the time of the Last Battle against the Dred they are King and Queen)

Some Omai scouts discover a secret coalition between the unorganized roaches, lawless wasps, and the other foul insects of Dal’lan to destroy the ant colonies. They find a gathering of these insects and spied on them to learn that a plan to invade the Kooma was prepared and forces were beginning to mobilize. The small scout part of four pairs separated, half of each went to alert the Kooma and the other reported back to their home to warn their king and queen of their discovery. The Omai scouts arrived at the Kooma colony by dawn the following day, the Kooma were skeptical, but still raised their guard and within an hour, war cries were heard surrounding their mound. The notice was enough for a defensive front to be hardened for an evacuation of the colony to start, the enemy forces were too powerful for the colony. The Omai stayed to help the defense while the queen of the Kooma and a small group of fighters and civilians fled through the forest away from the conflict, but they evacuation was quickly halted and the entire colony was surrounded.They all fought for their lives, and by sunset when the Omai arrived with additional forces the Kooma were all but dead including the Omai scouts. Remnants of the enemy remained looting the mound while the majority of them had left it in ruin with all the rewards taken away.They returned home with their fallen comrades in low spirits, but the Kooma queen and her small party had found their way to the Ralli, a more clear story was made regarding the conflict and refuge was asked for her and her people. It was allowed without question by Ja’Kiara and Je’Hull did not refute, instead he quickly joined the Omai to prepare a response for this act of terrorism. The Kooma fighters explained the amount of weaponry that the enemy now had and other reconnaissance regarding their enemy. It was not enough information to create a solid plan, but it was clear they were fighting overwhelming forces in numbers and potentially power. The Kooma queen, Ja’Ghan, urged Ja’Kiara to ask the bees for help. After a few days Je’Hull finally left his war room. His tireless rage fueled him, but Ja’Kiara was able to stop him and convince him to rest. The next morning, she asked if he’d consider going to the bees for aid, and after a few weeks of scouting and hearing of more ant colonies being destroyed, there was no choice, but to go to the bees. Je’Hull and Ja’Kiara took a patrol of Omai and Ja’Ghan and went across the mountains to the land of great trees where the hives of the Bee Empire. The bees were about twice the size of the ants and only obeyed their High Queen who led through her daughters, queens of the other hives that neighbored the Mother Hive. 
The ants plead to the High Queen of the bees, but she refused claiming, “Allowing myself to join this conflict for which I am not a part of will lead to the same fate as yourself, the force one commands is the goal of the enemy to rise above. Why would I sacrifice my children’s lives on your mistake?”
Ja’Kiara responded, “This enemy grows everyday and to settle on non-action will only provide you and your children the same fate as us, if you allow for us to fall then the enemy will be stronger and destroy when they attack you, using your logic, you have the ultimate command in Dal’lan and are the true goal of our enemy regardless if you involve yourself now or inevitably later. Join us now while we can stop them.”
The bee High Queen thought for a moment and considered Ja’Kiara’s warning. She stood from her throne and walked to the open balcony looking over her empire and felt the peaceful breeze on her face. “This is the world I have created for my children, away from those foul creatures, and I can not allow them to take what I have made. I will only feel sorrow for sending my children into this war, but my future children will bask in their glory when we have victory. You have my support. Any and all that I have is yours until our foe has lost their will to continue this threat on our homes.” The next day was spent preparing a great army, The High queen appointed her eldest daughter, Zehannaz, to lead this army and she collected five hives to her ranks.All of the bees worked as one force and within a few hours had organized all the preparations. Thousands of bees were at attention and awaited the order to mobilize. They thanked the Queen again and she wished them well and gave a caring but distant farewell to Zehannaz, which was recognized as normal for all bees were equal below the Queen and individualism was not common among the bees. They flew back to Ralli where they planned more advancements, even with the bees, they did not want to be arrogant and charge into an enemy whose force was still unknown.It was decided to separate their forces to the remaining colonies and keep close coordination so whenever one is invaded, reinforcements can be dispatched, until the main bulk of the army and headquarters of the enemy can be discovered and destroyed. 
Cont. Ralli

Involve Cicadas



Shadow Conquest:
The evil in the dense forests of Nil, in the north mountains of Dosram, and sparsely across the lands of Enul grew and an army gathered in the far North of the Barrenlands of Enulgree where a fortress was built and the altar to Umbra was worshiped. Umbra’s influence was strong in this area and its infection grew through the lands unchecked until some of the Nil people in River’s Bend dedicated themselves to the searching and stopping of this spreading evil they earned the title of The Hallowed Knights and traveled under the guidance of Wen Lightbane, of Wilo Lightbane’s bloodline. A guild hall was constructed in River’s Bend and this was where the Hallowed Knights reported their discoveries and planned offensive measures against the dark forces, the Dred Army. The Dred were evil creatures mutated in shadow and evil; the soldiers grew under the mountain, they varied in size and mutations, some with wings and multiple disfigured arms and/or legs. Most of the soldiers were discarded to the large caves just beneath the entrances of the deep caves under the fortress; they were trained by the older soldiers moderately in melee and ranged combat, and the larger of the soldiers were called Tankers, the idea was soldiers should be used more for offense while Tankers were more for defensive strategies, but they were used interchangeably within battle. The winged Dred were called Draiths, and usually gathered in the smaller caverns above the caves and on the mountaintops, with their own hierarchy, but the leader of the Dred Army was a Draith as well and seized control of the entire aerial and landbound Army, under the higher leadership within the Dred Fortress in the Barrenlands. As the shadow conquest begins, The Summoner Sect Shades fought off nearly the entire army until the Dred Eastern Fortress brought reinforcements in the form of the Draid. These Dred were more nearly twice as tall as Dred Tankers, very skilled, and the Draid were formidable and controlled giant, untameable, and not very intelligent monsters, called Draiders. 
 
The feud between mortals continued as the Dred took better hold of the land. The Hallowed Knights and Enul people prepared for a horrific series of battles that ended in disaster for them as they lost nearly all their fighters and most of their best strategic positions. This was when a tremble was felt in all of the Mayrn as a black mass tore through the stars in the sky and Amae appears to Win Lightbane among the rest of the Hallowed Knights, that Umbra had begun The Shadow Conquest; it invaded Mayrn with its Shadow Legion and was at war with the Sentries. She informed them of Umbra’s plan to enslave all living things in Subthara, with its immortal and mortal armies. The last thing she cryptically said was that the source of Umbra’s power was its influence. With this news the Hallowed Knights went to each city and pleaded with the rulers to aid in this war for the sake of all people of Mayrn and the world of Subthara. As many joined their cause, the weight of evil magnified and the city of River’s Bend was bombarded by a never before seen Dred force from the dense forest of Nilgree that also attacked Amanor by the river that flowed through the forest. In the North, similar reports were given that Jolhran and even Donrid were under siege by a great and unexpected Dred Army marching into Dosramgree from the mountains North and East, and with the plight continuing in Enulgree, it seemed to be a perfect storm of darkness. As towns laid in waste and chaos ensued, none could think of a strategy quick enough to alleviate the struggle until word of a band of warriors led by a mysterious and rugged man named Akrin, had defeated a large group of the Dred Army in the East.
In Enul, Akrin and his group of amazing fighters, who explained they were of the people from the South called the Wend joined Win Lightbane and the remaining Hallowed Knights as they planned to go to the Dred Fortress in the Barrenlands and destroy the evil Altar which was understood as the source of Umbra’s influence in Mayrn. They were unable to cross the vast lands occupied by the Dred Army and had to find another way to get to the fortress, but every plan had many false hopes and flawed strategies. 
In Dosram, Donrid was lost early in the Conquest and in a fatal swoop, the Dred took out most of the existing Dosram high leadership. A new election was underway in Jolhran, but with the Dred at its walls and Nil demanding that Briskden be the new official capital of Dosram, since it was loyal to Nil, a civil conflict broke out with elections being unable to fully carry out because the Dred limited communication. The divided people still fought the Dred in the Northlands, but until the support of the Mages the tide didn’t turn in favor of the Dosram people. A political sway was established when Nil proclaimed that their help should be rewarded with Briskden being declared the new capital, after all it is a good distance from the Dredded North and would have a great exit route incase of an aggressive take over of all of Dosram; however, the Dosram people did not entertain this notion and only wanted to claim Donrid back, not plan for failure.
In the Solthara, a similarly stumped Vaeya urged the aid of her fellow Divines calling them to her to aid her children. Nova and Tolen were unable to appear as they focused all their energy along with the Sentries to fend off the invasion. Amae did arrive and was more distraught than Vaeya for the pendulum was jolted greatly toward the side of darkness, but she dared not show her emotions. Mortyn was calm holding his book within his arms as he walked into the space where they were to meet, he paused and turned back when he heard a deep growl gurgling behind him. A stomping Stellan marched her way passing him as a silent Irial followed behind her closely. Just at the entrance of the place where they were to meet. Kolvari happily chatted to the silent, nodding Platgree as they approached Mortyn, they began to laugh uncontrollably. Mortyn smiled at them as they approached. They nodded toward him kindly and they all entered the room one after the other. Eyra was already sitting in her seat by the time the rest arrived. Vaeya began to speak, but Stellan threw her hands and began yelling her hatred for the repulsive Umbra and kicked at the closest thing to her. This awoke the sleeping Laewu, who was mostly unnoticed before, and Irial rushed to Stellan from behind quietly and held her shoulders to calm her and they both looked to Vaeya and the rest of them took their gaze off them and toward Vaeya as well. Vaeya apologized for this heartache and asked if Amae or Mortyn had any theories of a way they could restore the balance. Stellan jumped in anger, “Restore balance?! We must squeeze the bastard around its throat until there is no more shadow within it!” Irial placed her hands around Stellan’s and looked into her eyes, Stellan apologized to her for she saw that she scared the weeping goddess, who’s pain stricken eyes clouded with tears for her trees. Amae looked at Mortyn and he knew she was internally devastated. He looked to Platgree and Kolvari who were more invested in their own conversation. He demanded they listen to him for the play things and lands they deared so much were being threatened too, he continued by saying Umbra would take everything from them and this was their one chance to stop it. They silently apologized and became attentive as he explained that the only answer was within the Mayrn. Laewu even seemed to be listening although her eyes were still closed and she seemed drowsy from her long sleep. He opened his book and described a possible new form of energy that could be made if they combined their efforts. They all listened carefully as he spoke of this new energy, called Mana. 
They agreed that a collection of mortals will be granted access to this mana and will turn the tide of the war and return the balance. An excited pair, Kolvari and Platgree, knew just where and, with Mortyn’s direction, how to create a well of mana. Vaeya, Stellan, and Irial gathered their chosen mortals as construction was under way. By the time the mortals made it to the well it was finished and one by one they drank from this well. Irial was asked to be the first to take some mana for her trees and she did collect some in a stone bowl, but the trees were not the first to taste this elixir, it was Stellan’s selected animals who had ventured to the well before Vaeya’s chosen few arrived. Each of the people, both women and men, took their turn and felt the effects of the mana immediately. The first person was Lea the Primuma, a master restorationist, and another notable name is Zyrax, who became the first archmage of the Arcanem. Also a warlock named Ullenrey, who’s granddaughter changed the course of the Subthara on more than one occasion. The last person, named Undrea, stood at the well, grinned to herself and jumped into the well, the other’s gasped as she splashed the pure liquid out of the well and onto the ground. She crawled out of it and laughed as she stood to her feet. The ground where the mana landed began to shift and the people had to run as the ground began to swallow the well. The Divines were shocked but the task was done, which made their hearts gleam with hopeful anticipation. The people were infused with magical abilities, some shared talents while others had different skills entirely and they called themselves Mages. They organized in Nildon, after a few months the Mages had honed their craft to be very useful. Word was spread that the Dred had launched a terrorizing attack on Donrid. It was lost in a single night with an onslaught of skirmishing swarms of Draiths and a swift invasion of a Dred, Draid, and Draider Army. Some of the mages went North to take back Donrid while others traveled to Lonun, where they met with Win Lightbane and Akrin. With the help of the Mages allied with the armies of the three lands, Win and Akrin as well as their men and a few mages managed to get to the Dred Fortress as the other armies and mages occupied the bulk of the Dred Army. The small force made their way into the Dred Fortress and they destroyed the altar. Undrea, who had joined the company to the fortress, heard a whisper in the shadows and she laughed to herself again as they left the fortress. The effects of the destruction of the altar were felt through all of the Mayrn and the Dred Army attempted to muster the last of its strength but was inevitably defeated and the remaining forces squirmed into their previous hiding places. Umbra, understanding that its grasp on Subthara was lost, commanded its Legion to return to the outer darkness with it and the end of the Shadow Conquest.

Grosser summarization of the Second (Enchanted) Age:
After the Shadow Conquest a time of enchantment lit the land, magically infused people allowed groups to form among them based on their magical abilities named schools. Some of them who possessed a darker type of magic renamed themselves as Warlocks and others Witches. The witches immediately left the company of the Mages, who had built a great building over the place that used to be where the well of mana once was, this became the Mages home of solitude called the College of Magic, and they practiced their arts there while other Mages traveled to other cities; although, some non-magical people disliked the mages and wouldn’t allow them to remain in the cities, but the warlocks were absolutely banned from most all of the towns due to their unkind magical abilities. During the inauguration of Regina Vaena the 22nd, Undrea emerged with her coven and interrupted the ceremony to announce herself as the Witch Queen, the audience including the citizens of Nildon, who booed her away, and High Mages from the Academy of Magical Arts shunned her actions, and she was banned from the Academy. Her and the witches hid away unknowingly in the far East mountains, until she returned a few thousand years later at the height of her wickedness.

WW
Undrea used blood magic and human sacrifices to extend her life longer than any mortal before her. She took men (mages and non-magical men alike), locked them away, and raped them as did the women of her coven until she and her followers had many children who shared in her dark wits and Undrea’s had her magical abilities. Many of the men were killed in ritual to Undrea the Witch/Wicked Queen, who thought it would be fun at first but over the thousands of years, demanded and needed their blood to be spilled and she drank their blood for it increased her strength and power. Her influence grew as many women thought joining her coven would be freedom from their boring lives, but quickly learned that after joining the cult, death met those not devoted to the Wicked Queen and all not with her were lambs to her slaughter. Whispers of this wickedness turned to causal stories and to scary tales to convince children to stay in bed at night and to listen to their parents, but then the truth became unavoidably overwhelming that the Hallowed Knights were asked to hastily increase their search for these wicked women who slit throats in the night and took defensively women, men, and children to their secret place where they’d never be seen again. The Hallowed Knights now lead by Wolfan Lightbane, Win Lightbane’s descendant, had been aware of this cult and had been searching far and wide for it, but the clever Witch Queen concealed her coven with a great effort and they were unable to find her nest, even with aid from The Mages of College of Magic, who used their abilities to search for Undrea presence, but the mages were preoccupied with their conflict with the warlocks to aid with all their thought. 
During the Witch Queen’s reign many evil creatures spawned by her tainting and corrupting powers, and these monsters were released into the lands nearest to her influence in Enulgree, and the witch gave a vial of her own blood to the survivors and remnants of Dred Army, when some of the dreds drank from this vial they were infused with a dark enchantment, becoming dredges, and with the new strength they obtained they regained lost lands at the end of the Shadow Conquest. 
The majority of the Warlocks formed the Summoner’s Sect and focused their training on accessing the power from the Second Realm - one of the members, Karavir left the Sect and joined the Mages union in the College of Magic, which started the events that led to the Wicked War.
Witch Queen convinces the Sect that Karavir has betrayed the cult’s sworn oath of secrecy and members of the Sect: Eriko, Nexha, Malich, Vanth and their conjuroring inspired children as well as Ullenrey, are led by Hixara as they attack the College killing several new mage students who are descendants of the first mages and a well trained mage, Werro, until they reach Karavir and confront her about her broken oath in which she denies. Ullenrey believes her and tries to sway the Sect from hate and to encourage them to leave. In anger, Malich yells, “Karavir is a liar!” Hixara then replies, “We acted from what we believe, we’ve stormed the mages college to get this traitor and we will have our vengeance!” and she sends her minion on Karavir, but she summons her own more powerful minion and the rest of the Sect send their demonic and monstrous minions on her minion and she is forced to use dark magic to defend herself. Other mages aid Karavir and are successful, but not until Karavir is mortally wounded.
The Sect flee the College, but Ullenrey says behind clinching the hand of her dying friend as the Mages that are now overwhelming them chase the warlocks. They ask the reason for this assault on the college and Ullenrey explains everything to them. The mages witnessed her trying to convince the warlocks against violence but they could not ignore the actions of the rest of the Sect. Ullenrey understood and only wished for her to be able to attend Karavir’s funeral, which they allowed and Ullenrey goes to Lanarey who was hiding in a secret location and they both attend Karavir’s funeral and become allies to the College of Magic as well as the Sect, but are banned from joining their practice.
Over the years, The Mages look for the Sanctum but Ullenrey would not provide it to honor her oath. Eventually the mages do discover the location and destroy it. The Sect gains the alliance of the other warlocks and plans to strike another important place for the Mages within Enul, the primary food source, right at the beginning of winter. With the Warlocks preventing the Mages from getting into Nil and restricting their food supplies. After a few years, the Mages got desperate and made an quick strike against the Warlocks that ended with Warlocks victory, although a few Mages did break the blockade in Nil and made their way to River’s Bend to request aid from the Hallowed Knights, who did answer the call. The blockade was quickly dismantled but the warlocks of the Summoners Sect and the necromancers turned their attention onto the towns nearby, corrupting all the crops for years and raising the dead, causing hysteria in East Nil. The Mages responded with direct interference and left the College partially vulnerable. This was the Warlock's intentions and they attempted to make a second strike of the College, but it was guarded not by many mages, but one mage in particular prevented their assault to be successful, Olrean.
Olrean had not only mastered Wind Magic but also Water and rune crafting and implored other mages to rune his back with a powerful storm magic. On the day of the attack, he stood on the top of the highest tower and called in a mighty storm that he was able to channel through the runes that caused him much pain, but enhanced his storm casting. The sky turned dark and the wind strong, heavy rain and lightning fell upon the Warlocks and they were forced to retreat.
Over a period of time, the Dred revitalized by the Witch Queen and her coven strike up arms against the Enul and the Hallowed Knights combat their forces with the aid of the Mages. The Warlocks in a state of desperation deliberate to determine their future in this conflict. The Necromancers left their aid to protect themselves. Ullenrey had stayed with the Mages, but her daughter joined the Sect against her mothers wishes. The Malich spoke, “perhaps we should seek the Witch..” Hixara interrupted, “No! The Witch would laugh and force submission for her aid and she would only use us to benefit her own ambitions and we will not rely on the Dred who have already bent to her will and do not deserve our respect or plee.” Eriko added, “Indeed, there is no solace in alliances at this time, we have made many enemies and have lost friends.” They looked to Hixara the wisest of them now, “We must not act, Lanarey come to me.” She did as she was asked and Hixara continued, “You will return to your mother with a message, ‘We have not forfeited victory, but we will dip our toes and reach our fingertips further into the darkness until we return.’ You are to join her with the Mages and report anything of use to us to Eriko as you have learned. Do not be discovered and do not lower your guard with your mother for Ullenrey will suspect your allegiance to the Sect. Be as if you are with them, fight on their side, kill their enemies, learn from your mother, for all are our enemy, but do not forget who you are and who you truly are with. Now leave young Lanarey.” She did again as she was asked and took this message to her mother and did join the battle against the dark forces and learned many great things from her mother as the Sect did as they set out to do and learned they did themselves from the darkness. During this time is when the 29th Nildon Queen is inaugurated.
After years of solitude the Sect had decided to grow in number in their wait, but with only a few women and fewer men and the insolvable issue of incest that the warlocks and even the witches were above, they knew they needed to reach out for new members and perhaps the outer darkness itself. They did recruit a select few from a nearby town, but it was when the Sect began to use Hixara as a vessel to create a child of half humanity and half whatever would answer the call from the outer darkness that they reached a new level of access to power. The other master warlocks chanted around Hixara who had a vital egg within her and they called out to the Second Realm for a host that could reach the Third Realm and one did answer the call and a portal was opened within Hixara and she screamed in agony and her egg was infused with a shadow and it grew and she gave birth to a baby came from under her robes, but it was a man and he stood up among the Sect as they stopped chanting and starred. Hixara was glowing in a shadow and in much pain, but as the man turned to her she said, “My child” in a loving mother’s voice and began contorting. The man rushed to kneel beside her and pushed the shadow from her and closed the portal that was created within her. She stopped and took breaths of relief, “My son, I saw what my eyes can not see and I felt power that I can no longer.” The man spoke for the first time in a soft voice, “Mother you were being destroyed by Father.” She hugged him and became faint, “Thank you.” Malich spoke out to the man, “Who are you?” The man turned to him with dark eyes and replied, “Mother called me My child and my son,” he turned to his mother and asked, ”Which am I?” She stroked his cheek and answered, “Your name is Zaixthar.” He turned back to Malich, “I am Zaixthar son of Hixara and ..” (I would never be able to write the name of his father for it was a strong and evil demon that was more powerful than many other demons, but when he called out his long and hateful name it shook the souls of the Sect and nearly forced their essences to abandon their human forms and the room was cursed with his name forever) Malich got back on his feet after he had recovered and hesitantly asked how old he. Zaixthar was confused, “You watched my birth, you know precisely how old I am.” Malich was more confused than he was, “But you stand a man, speaking our language and the language of your father and know of the magic we possess..” Zaixthar stopped him and answered, “Although I was born in this form moments ago, I am not a man and I sense and know of many things that you do not for I was born from beyond time in this realm; my mother created me, and now I must take her to rest.” The next day Hixara awoke to Zaixthar, who sat tirelessly beside her. They were left alone for the rest of the night, but the next morning, nearly as soon as they left her chambers they were gathered and asked many questions for which Zaixthar answered the best he could as well as Hixara. The most notable of the first set of questions was, “Can we bear another like you?” Zaixthar paused and answered, “Of course, as I was born there is a chance to do so again, but I fear it may be more likely to be a hindrance than a gift. I do feel the angry and desire of my father; a void of need to be the strongest entity of all, and that would fuel the need of concur and reign victorious as king of all who must be tortured into submission, but it is a endless desire for even if one becomes the most powerful, one could be matched by all else, so one would require to end all else, and even if all else is gone and the universe without life exists, one will hate the universe and require it destroyed leaving only itself and its imperfections, but to correct all flaws would still contrast to something and to satisfy this self hatred one would have to end itself leaving nothing. I have this every desire and hold now compassion in my consciousness for any of you except mother which is only greater to all but myself. If you desire another like my own then I fear it would act more so on this desire and attempt to fill this void with murderous and selfish evil until it meets its own doom or is succumbed by an older and greater evil.” The Sect paused and Hixara broke the silence by saying, “At least you are not as barren of wit as that, my son.” One of the Sect members blurted out, “What do you desire?” Zaixthar thought longer and they all waited eagerly for a response, but none came. He only stood up and walked out of the room to begin his patrol of the grounds.
From then on the Summoners Sect became very powerful and their connection to the Second Realm stronger than ever. Members of the Sect began challenging the Second Realm. Many of them were answered by intrigued demons and the Master Warlocks defeated them in combat and dared to pull more dark energy and they became forces to reckon with. 
For years Zaithar defended the Sect from armies of Dred and other folk using only his bare hands although he had access to much greater power and weaponry, but he would not reveal his abilities to anyone but his mother until it was required of him, even to the rest of the Sect.
Eventually they felt comfortable with summoning another half demon, but Hixara forbade it and wouldn’t be the vessel, but the newest master warlock that had been training with the Sect offered herself as tribute. The summoning commenced but they were all more powerful than before and they opened the portal too wide and allowed four half demons to charge through the portal with no regard to the mortal woman. Her soul was rifted between the realms and Zaixthar tried to grab her but was unable to and had to close the portal before the rest of hell ripped through. They all stood amongst the Sect and then to Zaixthar who became angry. The demons were rigid and as predators stalking prey glared around the room, then one of the half demons sniffed around and called out to Zaixthar, “You claim mastery of this Realm?” Zaixthar stiffened and answered, “There is no master, only those who act before thought or barter with death!” They all hardened as if to prepare to attack him, but then they realized they did not trust each other and did not fully know their limits, compared to this obviously capable Zaixthar. He did not hesitate, and in a blink of a human eye, he thrusted forward toward the closest demon, grabbed it by the throat before it could think to defend itself and threatened, “You are all lesser in this place, obey me and do not be haste.” He let go, but did not soften his gaze on the trespassers and they felt his strength and did not contest him. They kneeled to Zaixthar and he would have lied to have said he did not feel the joy of this, but quickly told them, “Leave your close-minded weaknesses of our fathers. You have killed your own mother with your selfish desire. She was a young woman and did not deserve the horrid death she will suffer forever. You will never bear the names that your mother would’ve given you and you will regret her murder for as long as you live among the mortals of Mayrn.” They rose but hung their heads low as they listened to him, and Zaixthar’s words sat on their mortal hearts and they did feel guilt for their foolishness that murdered their mother and they fell back to their knees and stomachs, crying human tears. They heeded the teachings of old Zaixthar and he led them to be not as weapons of darkness, but as tools of protection to Hixara and adjacently the Conjurer's Sanctum.
The Dred army began to advance into the Sanctum region and the nameless began to fight them off with devastating power that shook fear into the hearts of those all who witnessed their fury even the members of the Sect’s, who many times nearly left the company of the nameless in fear that they could easily be overpowered by them but remained only because Zaixthar’s mother Hixara wished for him to keep them tame and leave the Sect unharmed. The Witch Queen heard of these nameless and sent spies to investigate and she became very weary of them and sent Members of her coven to teach the dredges more wicked abilities in an attempt to waiver them, but even as the Dred became more capable the nameless began to battle in pairs, which increased their warfare exponentially. If Zaixthar joined a pair in battle it was inevitable victory for the trio for no Dred power could sway them. Eventually the hordes of Dred became too overwhelming and the nameless began using their unknown skills in battle and drove away the attackers. The Witch Queen’s interest in these entities peaked and she sprung from her hidden place and set out for her victim and in the midst of an intense conflict between a pair of nameless and a heavy platoon of the Dred she showed herself and the nameless faced her directly. They tried to best her but with her chosen witches aiding her, she was able to grab one of them by the throat and force the other to submit and he did. The Dred stopped their attack and the battle paused. She caressed the hair of the one suspended in the hair with his neck held firmly and feet swaying feet high off the ground. She wished in his ear, “I will be your mother, my child and none under me are ponds to a master but extensions of myself. All of you may be mine if you destroy the one who commands you as peasants. Return to me soon, my child.” She let go and he and the other rushed away while the Witch Queen stood with a smile and the army returned to their fortress. They returned to the Sect and told Zaithar that they had defended the position they were tasked with but spoke not of their encounter with the Witch, until the four nameless were alone and the two told the other two of the deal provided to them. That night Zaithar stood at the doorway of his mother as he always did while the humans slept. Half demons had no need for sleep. One of the nameless called for Zaixthar to look out in the horizon for there was a large company of Dred advancing on the Sanctum location; he jumped from his chair, but stopped and looked into the eyes of the nameless. They were half demon after all and their lying flawless, but it is hard to fool another half demon and he sensed the others ready to flank him. The altercation awoke the Sect and they fled from the scene that was too wild for any of them to stop. Zaixthar kept his own and knocked down three of the nameless not to death but it certainly prevented them from continuing. The last of the nameless declared stood slightly weak but so was Zaixthar. Hixara emerged from the shadows and took down the last nameless and Zaixthar fell from his wounds as well and Hixara comforted him. Hixara brought her son and the others to the main chamber and reached out to the depths of darkness to aid them in healing. By morning they were recovered but the Sect was in ruin and the members scattered. The nameless were bested but not angry with neither Zaixthar nor Hixara and when she went to each of them to check their wounds they did not fight her motherly touch and were ashamed of their actions again. Hixara forgave them and said she did not blame them but it was the wicked witch that was trying to play on their human emotions then she gave them names. Ryelth, Murthrar, Shayrin, and Dedjex. She claimed them all as her own sons and gave them the title of Shades. The five of them became unrelentingly united and still under the leadership of the first Shade, Zaixthar, and he never worried about betrayal again and too forgive them for their actions blaming their fathers and the wicked whisperer. 
The Witch Queen expected her new minions to arrive any minute, but never arrived and after a few days she knew they were not coming. She hoped they had killed each other or dismantled the Sect completely, but she heard news of only the latter. In anger, she demanded the Dred launch a full scale assault on the Warlocks and they did as she commanded in fear for their own well-being. When they arrived at the Sanctum summoning place they were met by five Shades in the daylight, but the sun could not pierce their darkness. Their five tall and deep forms stood darker than night on that hill and they were rich with the essence of the shadows and more powerful than ever before.
 
 The Mages and Hallowed Knights had heard of the Dred’s large advance, but learning of the creation of the Shade brotherhood they sat out this conflict inorder to observe the raw power the Warlocks now possessed. The battle was long and the days withered to weeks of brutal war. The Shades fought endlessly against the entire army, but lost a few advances and it became apparent to the Dred, who realized they would be cut down by the Shades if they continued the battles and faltered against the Witch Queen and fled to the North; unfortunately, the Witch Queen had bought herself enough time.
On a quiet night in the year 3631 of the Second Age the Witch Queen and her most elite of her coven snuck deep into Nilgree in complete secrecy all the way into the palace of the Queen and her entire bloodline, one by one women, men, children who bore the royal name were slain in their sleep until lastly they reached the Queen’s chambers, the Queen and her witches killed the guards quietly and snuck into the large dark room where the queen was sleeping soundly. The Witch Queen signaled for the queen’s arms and legs to be held out and with swift and rough rips the queen was strangled and startled awake. The Witch Queen leaped from the foot of the bed and laid on top of the Queen pressing her face onto the pinned down woman. She smiled and blood oozed from her sharp teeth and she spit into her mouth and asked, “How does your family taste? I thought they were delightful.” And she laughed loudly. The Queen did not cry for help and only looked coldly into the Witch Queen’s black eyes, “You will never have victory old fool!” And she spit back into the Witch Queen’s face, but the Witch was not bothered by her taunt and viciously bit into the Queen’s throat and ripped flesh from her and the blood rushed quickly from her wound and the Witch slipped off the bed as the other witches began stabbing and cutting the dying Queen and laughing at her screams and agony. They left and disappeared into the darkness of the woods and it wasn’t until the next morning that the royal family was discovered. The Hallowed Knights immediately wished to take action, but the Mages were hard to convince and it wasn’t until decades later as the Dred and the Witch coven and her following would force both the Mages and Warlocks to form a coalition and fight against the greatest threat to goodness of the Second Age. The War lasted thousands of years and only a few Warlocks including Lanarey and her daughter Khathrey and the Shades as well as the Witch Queen and her elite, all of who prolonged life from tapping into the darkness and were still alive to see the end of the Wicked War when the Wicked Queen is defeated and scurrys away as the Hallowed Knights chased her and her coven away, Frenlya the most powerful astral mage in history shot a bolt of light into the back of the Witch Queen who fell on her knees in pain and had to be helped by her coven to continue to flee away. The Hallowed Knights were unable to catch her and she slipped away into hiding, never to be seen again.
Only two decades later, peace crumbled when whispers became words then words became bloodshed and conflict against the Mages and Warlocks sparked again and continued for almost two thousand more years. Humans grew a dense hatred for their magical war especially after their suffering by the witches and built strong defenses with their science and eventually were able to gain the offense against both mages and warlocks then defeat both. The remnants of the defeated mages and warlocks dispersed into hiding just as the witches were forced to. The College of Magic was decommissioned and the building left to crumble over time and a new Age of Technology began.

Gross summarization of the Tech Age: (Can go into more detail in the future)
After the long Wicked War and the end of the brutal Magic Wars many of the cities and towns are destroyed, some are even erased from the face of Mayrn. The remaining were torn down severely and had to slowly be rebuilt. These rebuilt towns are occupied by displaced people, who revived their new home that was far from their native lands. The Mages and Warlocks took the heaviest burden from the force of the Witch Queen for she believed them to be her main threats, and after the Magic War had ceased only a few magical blood lines remained. The overbearing hatred for any kind of magic that the vast majority of non-magic people felt led to the absolute ban of all magic and a new society of religion and science ruled over most all the lands especially Nilgree; furthermore, the population of people decreased so immensely that many of the people in Nilgree gathered in the old city Nildon and reshaped it to a new utopia; they deemed it Pearl City. Some people of the city still respected the Divines, but most devoted their energy to creating and advancing their society of science, which will become the greatest and best city to ever be on the planet Earth. New sciences were born astronomy and chemistry and other biological sciences as well as social and medical studies, and engineering in all respects reached its height of practice. Computer systems pioneered the immense increase of advancement for all sciences and the city became very prosperous. With a new digital currency and plenty of resources for the relatively small but growing population, eventually tall buildings were built and there would still be room for the eventual inventions of aerial vehicles that would aid in navigating across and throughout the levels of the buildings and platforms that dotted the city. The first level was wrapped in a tall white stone and metal wall with several well guarded entrances, but not many of the city's people felt the need to leave for all their needs and wants, even their not yet imagined desires, could all be found in their city. As computers and a new realm of digital existence integrated into the everyday lives of Pearl City, authority roles withdrew and a democratic majority vote would be implemented so that every decision was the true decision of the majority of its inhabitants. Diverse and interdependent leadership roles enabled for clear and beneficial interactions of progress and development within all aspects of the city. As technology rapidly became more integrated and meshed with mortal flesh, some people replaced parts of their body with synthetic replacements and in 500TA a new technology allowed Pearl City citizens to communicate with one another as if their minds were connected, if the person desired it.
The world around the city would also change, although not as quickly, but still plants and animals recuperated from the human conflicts. They grew and expanded through the lands around Pearl City. Cities near Pearl City would become old ruins and rarely were visited by anyone or anything beside the nature that peacefully claimed them. The Pearl City would send scouts to the lands further out and share some of their knowledge and technology, but most of the people in the lands of the “old world” wouldn’t take the true value of their gifts and only used them for temporary, selfish purposes such as territorial war with a neighboring community or for not violently but equally meaningless ventures. Eventually, the scouts of Pearl City would slow their travels until the scouting missions became rare and almost myth after a few hundred years. The gates locked and many of the guards left their posts and would learn new skills perhaps become carpenters or artists.
Right before the celebration of the second millenia, in 1999TA the first Book Takes place
Followed by the second Book in 2053TA
Followed by the third tale of the Chaos Skirmish in 2284TA
Cont. Tech Age



Loose Ends:
As of 3-11-22:
[x]Revenant Stone from Creation and held by Divines to Khathrey
[/]Hallowed Knights bloodlines (Win to Wolfan to Weinfra) – lost
[ ] Paladins - special force Thuun soldiers dedicated to fighting with the Hallowed Knights 
[/]First mages and their bloodlines
[x]Schools of magic
[x]Donrid destroyed during Shadow Conquest similar to Amanor? - taken over
[ ]Arkin’s history - lost (?Wend or Thuun?)
[/]The Magic Wars Events
[/]The Wicked War Events
First Mortal War - Nil against Dosram (Art of War inspired)
Development of the Enul - especially around the Shadow Conquest (Rangers, Druids, and Peaceful yet strong people)
Development of the Thuun / Thuunrath
Development of the Wend 
Crossroads family and feud histories
Development of Ralli’Omai
Development of Ven’Altir

	Some Vague Answers that need to be implemented (3-14-22:)
1) Held within the Earth, in the same place that Genak is fought in the first book, until the Shadow Conquest disrupts its resting place and during the Magic Wars it is discovered by the dark forces, they send powerful demon to the Mayrn to retrieve it and Khathrey sense’s its presence when it arrives in Mayrn and bargains with it to claim the stone and it’s minionship for a price.
2) Need to take some time to develop the land and make an intricate battle where both sides are strategic and it reshapes the social map of the Western lands.
Types of terrain:
Accessible ground - freely for both
entangling ground - hard to take back
temporizing ground - less gain than use
narrow passes - easily defended
precipitous heights - defense advantage
positions at a great distance from the enemy - useless to start conflict (safe zone) always play defense unless absolutely necessary
5) Schools of Magic (runes and enchantments as well as spell casting)
Elemental (Earth, Fire, and Water) 
Nature (Plant, Animal)
Astral (Restoration and Temporal and Soul)
Corrupt (Blood, Necromancy, Conjuration) 
6) Yes Donrid gets destroyed, taken over by the Dred and becomes their NorthWest Fortress

(3-15-22):
7) Arkin’s history will remain mysterious expect he is the son of Arkari, the daughter of Arkala - neither of who are significant in Wend history
8) Magic Wars are primarily between Mages and Warlocks started by the Witch Queen lying to the Summoners’ Sect, a cult that of which its members hold conjuring minions from the Second Realm in high regards despite it being a unpopular practice even among other warlocks, who practice Shadow and Necromancy as well as Dark Soul magic. One of the Members, Karavir decided that he would leave the sect and join the College of Magic with the mages and this displeased the other members excluding Khathrey’s grandmother Ullenrey; however, Karavir left honoring his oath to keep the practices, members, and location of the sect secret for they were not bound to it by their lives but only to that promise and he left in peace. He joined the Arceandem who were reluctant at first but warmed to his ernst intentions to teach young mages about the alternate magics they will encounter and warn against using dark magic, but after several decades the Witch Queen convinced the Summoners’ Sect that Karavir had told their secrets to the Arcanem, and they set out to kill him for his treason against them also excluding Ullenrey who took her daughter Lanarey to safety. They attacked the Arcanem, and were fought off only after killing Karavir and this sparked the Magic Wars. Karavir was replaced by his predecessor, who had become infatuated with the dark arts and continued his warnings of using it and the class became and elective due to the ongoing war against the Warlocks, most of the warlocks factions joined to attack the unified Arcanem all while the Witch spread her influence under their occupied noises.
9) The Nil officially declared war against the Witch Queen after her secret intrusion and murder of the Heavendawn royal family and started the Wicked War. It took decades for the Magic Wars to find truce and aid the Nil and now Enul people to defeat the Witches together. After which the Magic Wars struck up again but with the non magical people creating a third side and eventually winning against both mages and warlocks and banning the practice of magic all together, magic wielders are outlawed in Nilgree.
11 & 12) started

3-17-22:
4) The Original Mages from first to last:

NAME
TYPE
SCHOOL
SPECIALTY
COUNT
Lea
Mage
Astral
Restoration
1
Ullenrey
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
2
Vorth
Mage
Nature
Animal
3
Hen
Mage
Elemental
Earth
4
Olrean
Mage
Elemental
Floral
5
Anik
Mage
Astral
Soul
6
Dveth
Warlock
Dark
Blood
7
Aquin
Mage
Elemental
Water
8
Sayro
Mage
Elemental
Fire
9
Zyrax
Mage
Astral
Temporal
10
Hretha
Witch
Dark
Necromancy
11
Ier
Mage
Elemental
Earth
12
Fanmer
Mage
Astral
Restoration
13
Ohum
Mage
Nature
Floral
14
Colvir
Mage
Elemental
Water
15
Zeuna
Mage
Astral
Restoration
16
Loudi
Mage
Elemental
Earth
17
Pinyra
Mage
Elemental
Fire
18
Bueani
Mage
Nature
Floral
19
Koklin
Mage
Nature
Animal
20
Yunhigh
Mage
Elemental
Wind
21
Nosglad
Mage
Elemental
Wind
22
Hixara
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
23
Trik
Mage
Nature
Animal
24
Treni
Mage
Nature
Floral
25
Ban
Mage
Elemental
Earth
26
Oiki
Mage
Nature
Animal
27
Karavir
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
28
Malich
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
29
Kolli
Mage
Elemental
Fire
30
Jannu
Mage
Astral
Soul
31
Prax
Mage
Elemental
Earth
32
Youl
Mage
Elemental
Earth
33
Streim
Mage
Elemental
Water
34
Uid
Mage
Nature
Animal
35
Qshon
Mage
Elemental
Water
36
Vanth
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
37
Kendra
Mage
Astral
Restoration
38
Darha
Mage
Nature
Floral
39
Anijoy
Mage
Nature
Animal
40
Bunti
Mage
Elemental
Earth
41
Quara
Mage
Astral
Restoration
42
Pinna
Mage
Astral
Soul
43
Zuin
Mage
Nature
Floral
44
Loqnar
Mage
Nature
Floral
45
Gwon
Mage
Nature
Animal
46
Teja
Mage
Elemental
Fire
47
Froth
Mage
Elemental
Water
48
Splafe
Mage
Elemental
Water
49
Hollov
Mage
Elemental
Wind
50
Eriko
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
51
Pon
Mage
Nature
Animal
52
Murfra
Warlock
Dark
Necromancy
53
Vaya
Mage
Elemental
Earth
54
Blasht
Mage
Elemental
Fire
55
Akash
Mage
Astral
Restoration
56
Jazz
Mage
Nature
Floral
57
Exxa
Witch
Dark
Blood
58
Okan
Mage
Elemental
Water
59
Nexha
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
60
Rianer
Mage
Nature
Animal
61
Patlow
Mage
Elemental
Earth
62
Solumn
Mage
Astral
Soul
63
Undrea
Witch
Dark
Blood
64






Mages by School:
NAME
TYPE
SCHOOL
SPECIALTY
COUNT
Lea
Mage
Astral
Restoration
1
Fanmer
Mage
Astral
Restoration
13
Zesun
Mage
Astral
Restoration
16
Kendra
Mage
Astral
Restoration
38
Quara
Mage
Astral
Restoration
42
Akash
Mage
Astral
Restoration
56
Anik
Mage
Astral
Soul
6
Jannu
Mage
Astral
Soul
31
Pinna
Mage
Astral
Soul
43
Solumn
Mage
Astral
Soul
63
Zyrax
Mage
Astral
Temporal
10
Yunhigh
Mage
Astral
Temporal
21
Dveth
Warlock
Dark
Blood
7
Exxa
Witch
Dark
Blood
58
Undrea
Witch
Dark
Blood
64
Ullenrey
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
2
Hixara
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
23
Karavir
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
28
Malich
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
29
Vanth
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
37
Eriko
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
51
Nexha
Warlock
Dark
Conjuration
60
Hretha
Witch
Dark
Necromancy
11
Murfra
Warlock
Dark
Necromancy
53
Hollov
Warlock
Dark
Necromancy
50
Hen
Mage
Elemental
Earth
4
Ier
Mage
Elemental
Earth
12
Loudi
Mage
Elemental
Earth
17
Ban
Mage
Elemental
Earth
26
Prax
Mage
Elemental
Earth
32
Youl
Mage
Elemental
Earth
33
Bunti
Mage
Elemental
Earth
41
Vaya
Mage
Elemental
Earth
54
Patlow
Mage
Elemental
Earth
62
Sayro
Mage
Elemental
Fire
9
Pinyra
Mage
Elemental
Fire
18
Kolli
Mage
Elemental
Fire
30
Teja
Mage
Elemental
Fire
47
Blasht
Mage
Elemental
Fire
55
Nosglad
Mage
Elemental
Fire
22
Aquin
Mage
Elemental
Water
8
Colvir
Mage
Elemental
Water
15
Streim
Mage
Elemental
Water
34
Qshon
Mage
Elemental
Water
36
Froth
Mage
Elemental
Water
48
Splafe
Mage
Elemental
Water
49
Okan
Mage
Elemental
Water
59
Olrean
Mage
Nature
Floral
5
Ohum
Mage
Nature
Floral
14
Bueani
Mage
Nature
Floral
19
Treni
Mage
Nature
Floral
25
Darha
Mage
Nature
Floral
39
Zuin
Mage
Nature
Floral
44
Loqnar
Mage
Nature
Floral
45
Jazz
Mage
Nature
Floral
57
Vorth
Mage
Nature
Wild
3
Koklin
Mage
Nature
Wild
20
Trik
Mage
Nature
Wild
24
Oiki
Mage
Nature
Wild
27
Uid
Mage
Nature
Wild
35
Anijoy
Mage
Nature
Wild
40
Gwon
Mage
Nature
Wild
46
Pon
Mage
Nature
Wild
52
Rianer
Mage
Nature
Wild
61


The Nil – The First People, Devout and Regal
The Nil are the oldest civilization, their capital Nildon standing at the very place where mortals first arrived in this world. They are deeply aligned with the Divines, their faith shaping their culture, architecture, and way of life. The people of Nil are divided between the wealthy elite, who wear exquisite garments of silk and finely woven wool, adorned with golden embroidery and divine symbols, and the humble workers and farmers, dressed in simple, functional tunics and robes of earthen tones.

Their warriors, the Nilvar Army, are clad in elegant steel armor—flowing capes, ornate helmets, and beautifully crafted plate and chainmail—wielding expertly forged swords, spears, and bows. Their armor often carries intricate engravings of celestial symbols and the emblems of the Divines. Temples and grand structures of white marble dominate Nildon, showcasing their devotion and history.

The Dosram – Hardy, Honor-Bound Rebels of the North
The Dosram are the descendants of Nil explorers who ventured northward and, over time, rejected the Nil monarchy. They built a democratic society in the icy, mountainous North, with their capital Donrid nestled among the snow-covered peaks. Survival and resilience define them; they wear heavy furs, iron armor, and thick woolen garments to combat the bitter cold.

Unlike the Nil, the Dosram do not display wealth—honor and heritage are what matter. Their most prized possessions are family heirlooms—ancient swords, battle-worn shields, or finely crafted trinkets passed through generations. Their warriors are rugged hunters and trappers, skilled with bows, axes, and spears, their armor practical and reinforced with fur-lined cloaks. Their settlements are built of stone and timber, blending into the frozen landscape.

The Enul – The Hidden, Peaceful Mystics
The Enul, having ventured eastward, are gentle, wise folk who revere the Divines but do not seek war or rule. They dress in flowing robes, simple tunics, and woodsman’s cloaks, favoring natural materials like flax, wool, and leather in muted, earthy colors. They are scholars, spiritual guides, and caretakers of ancient knowledge, rarely intervening in worldly conflicts.

However, their pacifism was tested by the presence of a great fortress of darkness north of their lands, sending raiders of the Dread upon them by night. In response, the Enul built hidden underground homes within grassy mounds, their settlements appearing like rolling hills from a distance. They rely on hidden passages, traps, and secrecy to survive rather than brute strength. Their craftsmanship is delicate yet practical, with wooden staffs, amulets, and simple, finely carved weapons for self-defense.

The Wend – Pirates and Raiders of the South
The Wend are wild, seafaring people who followed the coast southward, never truly settling but instead establishing raider ports and pirate hideouts. They thrive on chaos, plundering, and maritime warfare, their leadership dictated by strength and crew loyalty—“The strongest captain with the largest crew wins.”

They look the part of true sea raiders—tattered coats, loose shirts, reinforced leather armor, and an assortment of stolen trinkets and gold adorn them. Their weapons are crude but effective—curved cutlasses, harpoons, and crossbows, often adorned with barnacles, rope bindings, and runes carved from old shipwrecks. The Wend’s settlements, where they exist, are bustling port cities filled with ramshackle wooden buildings, smoke rising from hidden forges, and countless ships anchored in the bay. The sea is their true home, their black-sailed vessels feared by traders across Mayrn.

The Thuun – The Reclusive Lords of the East
The Thuun were the boldest explorers, setting sail directly west into the unknown. Only four of their five ships survived, but those who made it reached the eastern shores of Mayrn and built an impenetrable fortress upon the Isle of Thuunrow. They are more technologically advanced than all other peoples, forging superior steel armor, weapons, and intricate machinery that surpasses even the Nil’s craftsmanship.

They are stoic, disciplined, and secretive, keeping to themselves in their fortress-city of imposing stone walls, clockwork gates, and towering spires. Their warriors wear polished steel plate armor, engraved with intricate designs, their helmets bearing tall crests and glowing runes of forgotten knowledge. Their weapons are precision-crafted—halberds, longswords, and heavy crossbows of unrivaled design. They interact little with the world outside, but when they do, it is with an air of superiority and calculated intent.

Cont.

